â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
 On November 5th, 1990, a man named Elsay, Yid, No Sair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and as sassina
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League. No sair
jewishdefenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtim
Jewish Defense League No Sair was initially found not guilty of the murder. But while serving tim
murderbutwhileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadoze
murder. But while serving time on lesser charge, she and other men began planning attacks on a doze
planningattacksonadozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunite
planning attacks on a dozen New York City Landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues, and the Unite
tunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledby
tunnels, synagogues and the United Nations Headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by
thoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasn
those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the world trade center was n
worldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplot
world trade center was not no sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plot
hisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniai
his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid, No, Sair is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I
borninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandalovingamericanmothe
born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983, to him an Egyptian engineer and a loving American mothe
andalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbesttocreateah
and a loving American mother and grade school teacher who together tried their best to create a h
besttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfamilydynami
best to create a happy childhood for me. It wasnt until I was seven years old that our family dynami
oldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfewpeop
old that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that few peop
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that
itsbeenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttake
Its been my experience that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take
oneanotheritdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutof
one another. It doesnt take long to realize that for the most part, we all want the same things out of
thesamethingsoutoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallperc
the same things out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small perc
youllfindasmallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeelthe
youll find a small percentage of people who holds of ervently to their beliefs that they feel the
beliefsthattheyfeeltheymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonth
beliefs that they feel, they must use any means necessary to make others live. As they do a few month
theydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekends
they do a few months prior to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that for the past few weekends,
forthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfor
for the past few weekend. She and some friends had been going to a shooting range on long island, for
rangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrive
range on long island. For target practice, he told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrive
thenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbein
the next morning, we arrived at Calverton shooting range, which unbeknownst to our group was bein
toourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtheri
to our group was being watched by the FBI when it was my turn to shoot. My father helped me hold the ri
helpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffth
helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder and explained how to aim at the target about 30 yards off th
about30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthet
about 30 yards off that day. The last bullet is hot hit the small, orange light, thats at on top of the t
ontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflam
on top of the target. And to everyones surprise, especially mine the entire target burst into flam
entiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikef
entire target burst into flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like f
saidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbut
said, Ibn Abuh, like Father, Like Son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But
outofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythought
out of that comment, but it wasnt until a few years later that I fully understood what they thought.
fullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinmethesamedestruction
fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought they saw in me the same destruction,
inmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallybeconvictedofpl
in me, the same destruction. My father was capable of those men would eventually be convicted of pl
eventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintothesubleve
eventually be convicted of placing a van filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives into the subleve
ofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausinganex
of explosives into the sublevel parking lot of the world trade centers, north tower, causing an ex
northtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersthesewere
north tower causing an explosion that killed six people and injured over 1,000 others. These were
over1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichmeansuncl
over 1,000 others. These were the men. I looked up to. These were the men I called AMMU, which means uncl
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called AMMU, which means uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life, and tha
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
in my life. And that instability during my childhood didnt really provide an opportunity to make
provideanopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearounds
provide an opportunity to make many friends each time. I would begin to feel comfortable around s
tofeelcomfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpe
to feel comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town, being the perpe
nexttownbeingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyid
next town, being the perpetual new face in class. I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my id
bulliesikeptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsout
bullies. I kept my identity a secret from my classmates to avoid being targeted. But as it turns out,
butasitturnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsofort
But as it turns out being the quiet chubby new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for t
enoughammunitionsoforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorpla
enough ammunition. So for the most, part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching Tvorpla
readingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelac
reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills were lac
mysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntprepa
my social skills were lacking to say the least and growing up in a big oted household. I wasnt prepa
otedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitr
oted household. I wasnt prepared for the real world, Id been raised to judge people based on arbitr
judgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligionsowhatopenedmye
judge people based on arbitrary measurements like a persons, race or religion. So what opened my e
sowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofthinkingwasdurin
So what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of thinking was durin
wayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwas
way of thinking was during the 2000 Presidential Elections through a College Prep Program. I was
collegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventioninphiladelphiamy
college prep program. I was able to take part in the National Youth Convention in Philadelphia, my
youthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingb
Youth Convention in Philadelphia. My particular groups focus was on youth violence and having b
youthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhi
youth violence and having been the victim of bullying for most of my life. This was a subject in whi
wasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydif
was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many dif
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out t
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention. I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several da
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
it had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural
thattherewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforean
that there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. An
ajewishfriendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrie
a Jewish friend before. And frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrie
abletoovercomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountablean
able to overcome a barrier that for most of my life, I had been led to believe was insurmountable. An
tobelievewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbusc
to believe was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busc
asummerjobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffai
a summer job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There I was exposed to people from all sorts of fai
fromallsortsoffaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelo
from all sorts of faiths and cultures. And that experience proved to be fundamental to the develo
befundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexual
be fundamental to the development of my character. Most of my life, Id been taught that homosexual
idbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativei
id been taught that homosexuality was as in. And by extension, that all gay people were an egative i
peoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeo
people were a negative influence as chance would have it. I had the opportunity to work with someo
opportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfoundthatmanyweret
opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show there. And so on found that many were t
foundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedasakidcre
found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people. I had ever met being bullied as a kid cre
bulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditcomesveryu
bullied as a kid created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others, and it comes very u
anditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiwouldwa
And it comes very unnaturally to me to treat people who are kind in any other way than how I would wa
thanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereotypes
than how I would want to be treated, because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereotypes
abletocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinterac
able to contrast. The stereotypes Id been taught as a child with real life experience and interac
reallifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwi
real life experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay. But Im well acquainted wi
butimwellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasth
But Im well acquainted with being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then there was th
controlthentherewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectual
control. Then there was the daily show on a nightly basis, Jonstewart forced me to be intellectual
forcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizet
forced me to be intellectually honest with myself about my own big otry, and helped me to realize t
helpedmetorealizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowithth
helped me to realize that a persons, race, religion or sexual orientation had nothing to do with th
nothingtodowiththequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwas
nothing to do with the quality of ones character. He was in many ways, a father figure to me when I was
tomewheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandt
to me when I was indesperate. Need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And t
anunexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemy
an unexpected place. And the fact that Ajewish comedian had done more to positively influence my
moretopositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayi
more to positively influence my world view than my own extremist father is not lost on me one day. I
onmeonedayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeand
on me. One day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my world view was starting to change. And
wasstartingtochangeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasi
was starting to change. And she said, Something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I
foraslongasiliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdog
for a slong as I live. She looked at me with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dog
whohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleintha
who had experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people in tha
ofhatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatred
of hating people in that instant. I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hat red
toholdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecide
to hold that hat red inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it when my family decide
itwhenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldiou
it when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So why would I ou
sowhywouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehope
 So why would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hope
doitinthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystory
do it in the hopes that perhaps someone someday who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story.
violencemayhearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubject
violence may hear my story and realize that there is a better way that, although I had been subject
althoughihadbeensubjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanatic
although I had been subjected to this violent intolerant ideology that I did not become fanatic
ididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrori
I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrori
tofightbackagainstterrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandthei
to fight back against terrorism, against the big otry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and the I
ofterrorismandtheirlovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupont
of terrorism, and their loved ones for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on t
hasforcedupontheirlivesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenseles
has forced up on their lives for the victims of terrorism. I will speak out against these sense les
outagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistan
out against these senseless acts and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stan
thatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandth
that simple factist, and here as proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And th
religionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthanky
religion or race. And the son does not have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank y
notmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
Not my father. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.  Thanks a lot.
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Sayyid, Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan, and assassin a
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League. No, Sair,, Osair,... Air
leaguenosairosairairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonle
league, Nos Air. Os Air Air was initially found not guilty of the murder. But while serving time on le,, League Nos A
onleleaguenosasserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkcitylan
on Le League, Nos Asser Charge. She and other men began planning attacks on a dozen New York City lan.... On a dozen
citylanonadozendmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersth
City, Lan, on a dozen dmarks, including tunnels, synagogues, and the United Nations headquarters. Th... City Lan, on a
thcitylanonaankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingofthe
th City, Lanona. Ankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the... The 1993 bom
ofthethe1993bomworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvol
of the, the 1993 bomworld trade center, was not. No. Sair would eventually be convicted for his invol.... His invol
forhisinvolhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpe
for his invol, his involvement in the plotel, say, Yid, nos air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pettsburgh, Pe
borninpittsburghpettsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandalovingame
born in Pittsburgh, Pettsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983, to him, an Egyptian engineer, and a loving Ame,... born in Pittsb
lovingameborninpittsbricanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
loving, a me, born in Pittsbric, an mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best to... Loving ame
theirbesttolovingamecreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthato
their best to loving a me, create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old that o,, O, fo, o
thatoofoourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfewpeo
that, oof., Our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam, that few peo... peo...
islamthatfewpeopeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencetha
Islam, that few peopeople, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience. Tha.... Islam, tha
myexperiencethaislamthatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttak
 my experience, Thaislam, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt tak.... my experiencetzv
itdoesnttakmyexperiencetzvelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethings
 It doesnt tak my experience, TZV, elong, to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things. We all want
samethingsweallwantoutoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasma
same things we all want out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a sma. Find a sma
asmafindasmallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeelthey
asma. Find a small percentage of people, who hold so fervently to their beliefs, that they feel, they,,... they,,
thattheyfeeltheytheymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspr
that they feel they, they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months pro, a few monthspr
monthsproafewmonthspriortohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweeke
months. Pro, a few months prior to his arrest, he sat me down and explained that for the past few weeken. E... A the
fewweekeneathendsheandsomefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortarg
few weekene at hend, she and some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island, for Targ.... Few weekene
islandfortargfewweekeneetpracticehetoldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrived
island for TARG, few weekene et practice. He told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived,,,,,,
thenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbein
 The next morning, we arrived at Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was bein,,,, the next m
wasbeinthenextmgwatchedbythefbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifl
was bein. The next MG watched by the FBI when it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifl. Hold the rifl
theriflholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsofftha
the rifl, hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off tha.... thak tha
yardsoffthathakthatdaythelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthet
yards off that hak that day, the last bullet I shot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the that. Sat on toptztzT
thethatsatontoptztztargetandtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburs
the, thats at on top, tz, tz target. And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target burs. The entire targ
targetburstheentiretargtintoflamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnab
target burs, the entire targt into flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic, said, Ibn a b. Nab. Yab.
ibnabnabyabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentb
ibna Bnabya Buh. Like, Father, like son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. B,, B, Nabya B
commentbbnabyabutitwasntuntilafewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwa
comment, bbna, by a. But it wasnt until a few years later that I fully understood what they thought wa. They thought wa
thoughtwatheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwa
thought wa. They thought was so funny. They thought they saw, in me, the same destruction. My father wa,,, thought
destructionmyfatherwathoughtscapableofthosemenwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacin
destruction. My father wathought, Scapable of those men, would eventually be convicted of placin.... Destruction, my
convictedofplacindestructionmygavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintothesublev
convicted of plac in destruction. My gavan, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the sub, lev.... Lev......
intothesublevlevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausinganexplosionth
into the sub lev level, parking lot of the world trade centers, North Tower, causing an explosion. Th... Into the subl
explosionthintothesublatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersthesewerethemenil
explosion. Thin to the sublat, killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. These were the men. I l... Explosion
themenilexplosionookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeitur
the menil explosion ooked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which means, Uncle, by the time I tur
bythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychild
By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And that instability, during my child,,, by the ti
mychildbythetihooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwould
 My child, by the Tihood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would... Kould...
eachtimeiwouldkouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmoveto
 Each time, I would kould begin to feel comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to,, each time I
movetoeachtimeithenexttownbeingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetarget
move to each time, I, the next town, being the perpetual new face in class. I was frequently the target. I was frequentlytztztzT
thetargetiwasfrequentlytztztztofbulliesikeptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoa
the target. I was frequently tztztzt, of bullies. I kept my identity, a secret, from my classmates, to a... the targe
classmatestoathetargevoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidin
classmates to a the targe, void being targeted. But as it turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in... being th
newkidinbeingthclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostpartispentmytimeathom
new kid in being Th class was more than enough ammunition. So, for the most part, I spent my time at hom. So for the mostzzzzzJ
homsoforthemostzzzzzjereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesforthosereason
hom. So, for the most, zzzzzje, reading books and watching TV or playing video games, for those reason.... Reading boo
forthosereasonreadingboosmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowingupinabi
for those reason, reading boos. My social skills were lacking to say the least, and growing up in a bi. Growing up inabi
abigrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtojudgep
a bi. Growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to judge p. A bidge p.
judgepabidgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligionsowhatop
judge P.A., bidge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race or religion. So, what op... Judge P.A.
sowhatopjudgepaenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofthinkingw
 So, what. OP. Judge Paened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of thinking, whallenged thisw
wayofthinkingwhallengedthiswasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
way of thinking, whallenged. This was during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electionsP
throughacollegepresidentialelectionsprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyo
 through a college, presidential, elections, prep program, I was able to take part in the National Yo. Genational Yo
thenationalyogenationalyouthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswason
the National Y.O.G.E., National Youth Convention in Philadelphia. My particular groups focus... was on... The Nation
focuswasonthenationyouthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifet
focus was on the nation, youth violence, and having been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, the victim of bul
lifethevictimofbulhiswasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofou
life, the victim of Bulh. Is was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of ou,,... ou,...
themembersofouourgroupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendofthecon
 the members of ou. Our group came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the con,, the end of
thecontheendofventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtak
the con, the end of vention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had tak tak... Tak
ithadtaktaktakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnon
 It had tak, tak, taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no n,,,, No,
therewasnonnoaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandf
there was non, no atural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before, and... Fore, and f
beforeandforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatf
before and fore. And, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier that f... Frankly, I
barrierthatffranklyiormostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherma
barrier, that F, frankly. I, or most of my life, I had been led to believe, was insurmountable. Another ma,, Barrier
wasinsurmountableanothermabarrierjorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
was insurmountable. Another, Ma Barrierj, or turning point, came when I found a summer job at Busch. G. Found a summer
buschgfoundasummerardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffai
 Buschg found a summer ardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiz, buschg found
sortsoffaizbuschgfoundthsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothed
sorts of Faizbusch, G. Found, THs and cultures. And that experience proved to be fundamental to the d... Sorts of Faiz
thedsortsoffaizevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualityw
 thed, sorts of, faizevelopment of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality, w,, w,, thed w
homosexualitywwthedwasasinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceas
homosexuality. WW, the D, was as in and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As... and by ext
influenceasandbyextchancewouldhaveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperf
influence, as, and byext, chance would have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay perf,,, influence
ofthegayperfinfluenceormersatashowthereandsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastju
of the gay perf influence, or mers, at a show there, and so on, found that many were the kindest, least, ju. Found th
kindestleastjufoundthdgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofe
kindest, least JU found THDG. Mental people I had ever met being bullied as a kid, created a sense of e,, kindest, le
senseofekindestlempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditcomesveryunnaturallyto
sense of, ekindest, lempathy in me, toward the suffering of others. And it comes, very, unnaturally, to... Sense of ek
unnaturallytosenseofekmetotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiwouldwanttob
unnaturally, to sense of E.K. me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I would want to b. I would w
tobiwouldwetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaug
to B.I., would. We treated because of that feeling. I was able to contrast the stereotypes Id been taug.... Taug...
stereotypesidbeentaugtaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteractionidontknow
stereotypes. Id been taug, taught as a child, with real life experience and interaction. I dont know,... I dont know
dontknowidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethin
dont know. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with being judged for somethin.... Dont know
judgedforsomethindontknowgthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedailyshowonanightly
judged for somethin. Dont know, G. Thats beyond my control. Then there was the daily show. On a nightly,,, Judged fo
onanightlyjudgedfobasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfabout
on a nightly judged F.O. basis. Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest with myself, about,,,,,, on
honestwithmyselfaboutonmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethatapersonsracereligiono
honest with myself, about on my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a persons race, religion, of helped me to r
ofhelpedmetorrsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityofonescharacterhewasi
of helped me. Torr, sexual orientation had nothing to do with the quality of ones character. He was, I,, i,, i,, i
wasiiiinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoften
was III. In many ways, a father figure to me, when I was in desperate need of one inspiration, can often... Often..
oneinspirationcanoftenoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedia
one. Inspiration can often, often come from an unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedia,... a Jewish comed
jewishcomediaajewishcomednhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownex
Jewish comedia, a Jewish comedn, had done more to positively influence my worldview than my own. Ex.... my own. Ex.
ownexmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihadaconversationwithmymotheraboutho
own ex, my own extremist. Father is not lost on me. One day, I had a conversation with my mother about ho,, of ho,
motherabouthoofhowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwill
mother about, Hoof, how my worldview was starting to change. And she said something to me, that I will... You ll...
thatiwillyoullholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofso
that, I will. Youll hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked at me with the weary eyes of so,,, so
wearyeyesofsosomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtire
weary eyes of. So, someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tire.... And said, I
imtireandsaididofhatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakest
Im tire, and said, I dof hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes t... Im tire and
takestimtireandoholdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhen
takes Tim Tire, and O hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it when... When...
ichangeditwhenwhenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifes
 I changed it when, when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. S.... I changed
newlifesichangedowhywouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpl
new lifes. I change. Do why would I out myself, and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simpl.... Thats simpl
wellthatssimplthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledt
Well, thats simpl. Thats simple. I do it in the hopes that perhaps someone, someday, who is compelled tho is compelledt
iscompelledthoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetter
is compelled. Tho is compelled to use violence. May hear my story and realize that there is a better... Is a better
abetterisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologyt
a better, is a better way. That, although I had been subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology, that, although I
intolerantideologythatalthoughihatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemye
intolerant ideology, that, although I hat, I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my e...... my e...
usemyemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictims
use my E, my experience, to fight back against terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims. I do it for th
idoitforthofterrorismandtheirlovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasf
 I do it forth, of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has for. The terribl
terrorismhasfortheterriblorcedupontheirlivesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakou
terrorism, has, for the terriblorced upon their lives, for the victims of terrorism. I will speak ou.... Speak ou.
willspeakouspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththa
will, speak ou. Speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn my fathers actions. And with tha,,, will tha
andwiththawillthatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesrelig
and with that will. That simple fact is, tand here, as proof, that violence isnt inherent in ones relig.... And with
inonesreligandwithionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotm
in ones religand, withion or race. And the son does not have to follow the ways of his father. I am not mot m... M.
amnotmotmmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
am not MOTM. My father, thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahaneth
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Sayyid Nosair walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahan
andassassinatedrabbimeirkahaneleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemur
and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane, leader of the Jewish Defense League Nosair, was initially found not guilty of the Mur
notguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyo
not guilty of the murder. But while serving time on lesser charges, he and other men began planning attacks on a dozen
planningattacksonadozenrkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersthank
planning attacks on a dozen RK city landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues and the United Nations headquarters. Thank
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingofthewo
the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of thwo
the1993bombingofthworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotel
the 1993 bombing of Thworld Trade Center was not, Nosair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel
hisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptian
his involvement in the plotel Sayyid Nosair is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1983 to him, an Egyptian
1983tohimanegyptianengineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbesttoc
1983 to him, an Egyptian engineer and a loving American mother and grade school teacher who together tried their best toc
togethertriedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfamilydynamics
together tried their best to create a happy childhood for me. It wasnt until I was seven years old that our family dynamics
oldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajori
old that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to aside of Islam that few people, including the majori
fewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeract
few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see its been my experience that when people take the time to interact
takethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethings
take the time to interact with one another. It doesnt take long to realize that for the most part we all want the same
weallwantthesameoutoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeoplewho
we all want the same out of life however in every religion in every population youll find a small percentage of people
asmallpercentageofpeopleholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeo
a small percentage of people hold so fervently to their beliefs that they feel they must use any means necessary to makeo
anymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthe
any means necessary to make others live as they do. A few months prior to his arrest he sat me down and explained that
medownandexplainedthatpastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortarg
me down and explained that past few weekends he and some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island fort
rangeonlongislandfortetpracticehetoldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingran
range on Long Island fortet practice. He told me Id be going with him the next morning we arrived at Calverton shootingr
wearrivedatcalvertonshootingrgewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwasmyturntosho
we arrived at Calverton shooting RGE, which unbeknownst to our group was being watched by the FBI when it was my turnto
whenitwasmyturntootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yar
When it was my turntoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder and explained how to aim at the target about30yzz
aimatthetargetabout30yzzdsoffthatdaythelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargeta
aim at the target about 30 yzzds off that day The last bulletish othit the small orange light that sat on top of the targ
ontopofthetargndtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedtotheoth
on top of the targnd to everyones surprise, especially mine. The entire target burst into flames. My uncle turned to th
myuncleturnedtothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutoft
my uncle turned to ther men and in Arabic said Ibn Abuh like father like son, they all seemed to get a really big laugho
getareallybiglaughohatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofu
get a really big laughoh at comment. But it wasnt until a few years later that I fully understood what they thought wassofu
understoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthose
understood what they thought was so funny they thought they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those
fatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesint
father was capable of those. Men would eventually be convicted of placing a van filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives
with1500poundsofexplosivesothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausinganexplosionth
with 1500 pounds of explosive. So the sublevel parking lot of the World Trade Centers North Tower, causing an explosion
northtowercausinganexplosionatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothese
North Tower causing an explosion at killed six people and injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up tothesz
menilookeduptotheszwerethemenicalledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmy
men I looked up to the Sz were the men I called Ammu, which means uncle by the time I turned 19. I had already moved 20timz
ihadalreadymoved20timzlifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomakema
I had already moved 20 Timz life, and that instability during my childhood didnt really provide an opportunity to makema
provideanopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopac
provide an opportunity to make many friends each time I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. It was time topac
someoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetof
someone it was time to pack up and move to the next town being the perpetual new face in class. I was frequently the target
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahaneth
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Sayyid Nosair walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahan
andassassinatedrabbimeirkahaneleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemur
and assassinated Rabbi Meir Kahane, leader of the Jewish Defense League Nosair, was initially found not guilty of the Mur
notguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyo
not guilty of the murder. But while serving time on lesser charges, he and other men began planning attacks on a dozen
planningattacksonadozenrkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersthank
planning attacks on a dozen RK city landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues and the United Nations headquarters. Thank
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingofthewo
the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of thwo
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
jewishdefenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtim
Jewish defense league, Nos Air, was initially found, not guilty of the murder. But while serving tim,, but while servingtim
murderbutwhileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadoze
murder. But, while serving time on lesser charges, he and other men began planning attacks. On a doze,,, a doze,,
planningattacksonadozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunite
 planning attacks on a dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues, and the Unite.... Tex Planning Att
tunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledby
 tunnels, synagogues, and the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled. By... those plans were
thoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasn
 Those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was... No, the 1993 b
worldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplot
World Trade Center, was not. Nos. Air would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plot.... I convicted
hisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniai
his involvement in the plotel, say, Yid, Nosairis. My father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I... I was born
borninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandalovingamericanmothe
born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a loving American mothe,,, an Egyptian
andalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbesttocreateah
 and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best to create a h.,, and a loving
besttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfamilydynami
best, to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old that our family dynami,, that our fami
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
jewishdefenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtim
Jewish defense league, Nos Air, was initially found, not guilty of the murder. But while serving tim,, but while servingtim
murderbutwhileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadoze
murder. But, while serving time on lesser charges, he and other men began planning attacks. On a doze,,, a doze,,
planningattacksonadozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunite
 planning attacks on a dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues, and the Unite.... Tex Planning Att
tunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledby
 tunnels, synagogues, and the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled. By... those plans were
thoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasn
 Those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was... No, the 1993 b
worldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplot
World Trade Center, was not. Nos. Air would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plot.... I convicted
hisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniai
his involvement in the plotel, say, Yid, Nosairis. My father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. I... I was born
borninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandalovingamericanmothe
born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a loving American mothe,,, an Egyptian
andalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbesttocreateah
 and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best to create a h.,, and a loving
besttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfamilydynami
best, to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old that our family dynami,, that our fami
oldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfewpeop
old that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam, that few peop,, that few peop
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
itsbeenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttake
 Its been my experience that, when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take... It doesnt take
oneanotheritdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutof
one another. It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things. Out of... we all wa
thesamethingsoutoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallperc
the same things out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small perc,, youll find as
youllfindasmallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeelthe
 youll find a small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. The... they feel th
beliefsthattheyfeeltheymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonth
beliefs that they feel. They must use any means necessary to make others live as they do. A few months, they do. A few
theydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekends
they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends,, he sat me do
forthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfor
 For the past few weekends, he and some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island, for... For the pastf
rangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrive
range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrive. We arrive.
thenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbein
 The next morning, we arrived at Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was bein,,, the next mor
toourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtheri
to our group was being watched by the FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the ri. Erithed me h
helpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffth
helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off the target, about
about30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthet
about 30 yards off that day. The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the t. Hit the small
ontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflam
on top of the target. And to everyones surprise, especially, mine, the entire target, burst into flame, the entire targ
entiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikef
entire target burst into flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic, said, Ibn a buh. Like, F. Rike f.
ibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwa
Ibn Abuh, like father, like son, they all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wa.... It wa
thatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwasso
that comment. But it wasnt, until, a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was. So,, so,, but
whattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapa
what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in me, the same destruction. My father was cap, a pa,, they
myfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith150
 my father, was capable of those. Men would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 150,,, my father w
avanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecent
a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives into the sub level, parking lot of the world. Trade cent.... cento. Th
oftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredo
of the World Trade Centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured... o... causing an
sixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalle
six people, and injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I calle,, these were
werethemenicalledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinm
were the men. I called Ammu, which means Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in m. I had already
moved20timesinmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanoppor
 moved 20 times in my life. And that instability, during my childhood,, didnt really provide an oppore. And that inst
didntreallyprovideanopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfort
didnt really provide an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel... comfort. I would begin tozyz
wouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbei
 would begin to feel comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town, be I... be I...
thenexttownbeingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptm
the next town, being the perpetual new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept m... I kept m.
ofbulliesikeptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnso
of bullies. I kept my identity, a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But as it turns of bullies, I k
butasitturnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsofort
 But as it turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for than enough am
enoughammunitionsoforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorpla
enough ammunition. So, for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV, or plaching TV, or pla
andwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaythe
and watching TV, or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the,, the sereasons
werelackingtosaytheleastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealw
were lacking, to say, the least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real w. I wasnt preparedz
preparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslike
 prepared for the real world. Id been raised to judge people, based on arbitrary measurements, like,,, prepared for
basedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyf
based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my f... one of my f
eyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presid
eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presid,, Presid,, one o
wasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepar
was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, prep, program. I was able to take par,, I was able to
wasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfoc
 was able to take part in the National Youth Convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups,, foc,, was able to ta
philadelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbul
 Philadelphia. My particular groups, focus was on youth violence, and, having been the victim of Bul,,,, Philadelph
beenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypas
been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, this was a subject in which I felt, particularly, pash,, I felt par
whichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydifferentwalksof
 which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many different walks,, of...... which I fel
frommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutthatoneoft
from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out that one of the one of the
outthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailt
out that. One of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several days for this detail. Thow, it had ta
daysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonaturalanimositybetweent
days, for this detail, to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural animosity between... there was no n
nonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfranklyifel
no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before, and, frankly, I fel,, I fel,, I
beforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatformosto
before. And, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier that, for most, of most of o
barrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanothermajorturni
barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another major turn. I had been, led
insurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschgardensanam
insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch Gardens,, an a.m.,, a m.,, a m
atbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandcult
at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths and cult.... I was exposed
sortsoffaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentof
sorts of... faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of...... the devel
fundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualit
 fundamental to the development of my character. Most of my life, Id been taught... that homosexualite, Id been taught
idbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativei
Id been taught that homosexuality was as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative. I... I jere a ne
peoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeo
 people were a negative influence, as chance would have it. I had the opportunity to work with some o... People were an
toworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestle
to work with. Some of the gay performers at a show there, and so on, found that many were the kindest. Le, found that
manywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasens
 Many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sens. Created a sens
akidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditcomesveryunnaturall
 A kid created a sense of empathy in me, toward the suffering of others. And it comes very unnatural. L,, and it comes
itcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiwouldwantt
 It comes, very unnaturally, to me to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how. I would want thow I would
howiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereotypesidbe
 how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereotypes. Id be... Id be...
contrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteractionid
contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught. As a child, with real life, experience and interaction, Id... Id... Real l
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
imwellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewastheda
 Im well acquainted, with being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the da.... the da....
thentherewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhones
 Then, there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, hones,, Jon Stewart
metobeintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethatape
me to be, intellectually, honest with myself about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that, a pe,, to realize t
torealizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequality
to realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality. I, to realize tha
todowiththequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindespe
to do with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was in despere, when I
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
onedayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshes
 One day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she starting to change
tochangeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelook
to change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She look,, she look
asiliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtol
 as I live, she looked at me with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to l... As I live, sh
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
toholdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecide
to hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it. When my family decide,, I changed i
itwhenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldiou
it, when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I oug. I our...
sowhywouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehope
 So why would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hope. I do it in they
doitinthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystory
do it, in the hopes that perhaps someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. May hear my st
violencemayhearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubject
violence, may hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subject,,,... Subject
althoughihadbeensubjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanatic
 although I had been subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology, that I did not become... fanatic. I did not beco
ididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrori
 I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terror. I... I choose to
fightbackagainstterrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirl
 fight back against terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their ligotry. I do it
ofterrorismandtheirlovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupont
of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced. Upon the terrible pain andl
terrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthes
 terrorism, has forced, upon their lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against the s... I will speak
speakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefact
 speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact,,...... actions
andwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorra
 and with that simple factist, and here, as proof, that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or ra.... Ra. Froof th
inonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfather
in ones religion or race, and the son does not have to follow the ways of his father. I am not. My father. I am not. Myf
iamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
youthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingb
 Youth Convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups focus was on youth violence. And having... by......... b
youthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhi
 youth violence, and having been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, this was a subject in which I... was a
wasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydif
 was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many diffelt,,,, was a s
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
fanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainsttheb
fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, against the b.... I choose to
terrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedonesforthete
 terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrorism, and th
lovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevict
 loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the vict,, for the vict
livesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyf
lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn, my f...... my f... f
andcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisnt
and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stand here, as proof, that violence isnt. I olence isnt
proofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthe
proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have to follow. The son does not havetozyk
havetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouall
have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. All... You all
everybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
youthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingb
 Youth Convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups focus was on youth violence. And having... by......... b
youthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhi
 youth violence, and having been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, this was a subject in which I... was a
wasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydif
 was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many diffelt,,,, was a s
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
fanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainsttheb
fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, against the b.... I choose to
terrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedonesforthete
 terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrorism, and th
lovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevict
 loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the vict,, for the vict
livesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyf
lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn, my f...... my f... f
andcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisnt
and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stand here, as proof, that violence isnt. I olence isnt
proofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthe
proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have to follow. The son does not havetozyk
havetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouall
have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. All... You all
everybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... 
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
youthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingb
 Youth Convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups focus was on youth violence. And having... by......... b
youthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhi
 youth violence, and having been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, this was a subject in which I... was a
wasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydif
 was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many diffelt,,,, was a s
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
fanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainsttheb
fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, against the b.... I choose to
terrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedonesforthete
 terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrorism, and th
lovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevict
 loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the vict,, for the vict
livesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyf
lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn, my f...... my f... f
andcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisnt
and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stand here, as proof, that violence isnt. I olence isnt
proofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthe
proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have to follow. The son does not havetozyk
havetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouall
have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. All... You all
everybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... 
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
youthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolenceandhavingb
 Youth Convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups focus was on youth violence. And having... by......... b
youthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubjectinwhi
 youth violence, and having been the victim of bullying. For most of my life, this was a subject in which I... was a
wasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefrommanydif
 was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from many diffelt,,,, was a s
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
fanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainsttheb
fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, against the b.... I choose to
terrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedonesforthete
 terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terrorism, and th
lovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevict
 loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the vict,, for the vict
livesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnmyf
lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn, my f...... my f... f
andcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolenceisnt
and condemn my fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stand here, as proof, that violence isnt. I olence isnt
proofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollowthe
proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have to follow. The son does not havetozyk
havetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodythankyouall
have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. All... You all
everybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... 
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassintedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosairw
in Manhattan, and assassinted, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos. Air W.E. R.A. Hane, th
airwerahanetasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonlessercharg
airwer, Ahanetas, initially found, not guilty of the murder, but... While serving time on lesser charge, but while se
lesserchargebutwhilesesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkcitylandm
lesser charge. But while Seshe and other men began planning attacks on a dozen New York City land,,... megan planning
yorkcitylandmeganplanninarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadqua
York City land, Megan Plann, in arks, including tunnels, synagogues, and the United Nations Headquarn. In arks, includi
nationsheadquarninarksincludrtersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformants
nations headquarn in Arks, includ RTERs. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informants.......... an FBI inf
fbiinformantsanfbiinadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeven
FBI informants, an FBI. In adly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not no sair, would even,, the 1993 bo
wouldeventhe1993btuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyfa
 would even the 1993 BTUALLY be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid, no sair. Is my fa. Iris my fa
myfairismyftheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineeranda
 My fair is my FTHER. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania in 1983, to him, an Egyptian engineer, and a... And a
engineerandaandlovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbes
 engineer, and a, and loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their besineer, and a, and
theirbesineerandaanttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldtha
 their besineer and aant to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, tha,, thair besine
yearsoldthathairbesintourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofi
years old, that hair besin tour family. Dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of, I father exposed
sideofifatherexposeslamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeen
side of, I father expose, Slam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been... Its been
seeitsbeenitsbeemyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritd
see. Its been. Its beemy experience that, when people take the time to interact with one another, it d... It d... When
itditdwheoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflife
it D. It D. Wheoesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. We all want
oflifeweallwanhoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageof
of life we all wan. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of... Youll find a
percentageofyoullfindpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustu
percentage of youll find people who hold, so, fervently, to their beliefs, that they feel they must... U.S. tu... u
theymustustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarres
 They must ust, use any means necessary to make others live as they do. A few months prior to his arres,,, they mus
tohisarrestheymuthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriend
to his arrest, hey mut. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friend, she and somefriz
somefriendsheandsomefrishadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpractic
 some friend, she and some frish, ad been going to a shooting range on Long Island, for target, practic. For target, pr
targetpracticfortargetpehetoldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvert
target, practic for target, PE. He told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calvert,, I arrived
arrivedatcalvertiarriveonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedb
 arrived at Calverti, arrive on shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched. Being watched by
beingwatchedbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherif
being watched, being watched by the FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the R. If... When it
therifwheniletomyshoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdayth
ther. If, when I let omy shoulder and explained how to aim at the target, about 30 yards off that day, the the target
thatdaythethetargeelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargeta
that day. The the targee last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. A thit the small
targetathitthesmalndtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintofla
target at hit the smaln. D, to everyones surprise, especially, mine, the entire target, burst into fla. Fla. It to everyo
flaflaittoeverymesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlike
fla flait to every mes. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like... Father,
abuhlikefatherlikefathersontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbuti
a, buh, like father, like father, son, they all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But I... I jeall
commentbutiijealtwasntuntilafewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwass
comment. But I, I jealt, wasnt until, a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was, shat they thoughtz
thoughtwasshattheythoughtofunnytheythoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherw
thought was shat. They thought, of unny, they thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father, was shat. Theyt
myfatherwasshattheyascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfil
 my father, was shat. They, as capable of those men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, fil. Fil. Fil.
avanfilfilfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtra
a van, fil fil fil filled, with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking lot of the world. Tra... Ingl
oftheworldtraingdecentersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjur
of the World Traing De Centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and in jur.... causing an e
injurcausinganedover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledam
injur, causing an ED, over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called a men I called
calledamenicallemuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmyli
called Amenical Lemu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my li. Ed 20 times
mylied20timefeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunity
my... lied 20 time... fe. And that instability during my childhood didnt really provide an opportunity.... Didnt really
provideanopportunitydidntrealltomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomforta
provide an opportunity, didnt reall, to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfort, a,, I would begin
comfortaiwouldbegiblearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingthep
comfort, AI would be gible around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the p... The p...
beingtheptheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidenti
being the P, the perpetual new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identi. I kept my identi
identiikeptmyidenttyasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbe
ident I. I kept my ident Tya secret from my classmates to avoid being targeted. But as it turns out, be,, be,, be,
turnsoutbebebeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthem
turns out, be. Be being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for them,, be be bein
forthembebebeiostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideoga
for them. Be be be. I ost part. I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video game. Reading
orplayingvideogamereadinmesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleast
or playing video game, read in mes. For those reasons, my social skills were lacking, to say, the least,, my social s
theleastmysocialandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbe
 the least my social. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id be... Id be...
worldidbeidbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceor
world. Id be. Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or,,... or...
apersonsraceororreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedt
 a persons race or or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged them,, a persons
thatchallengedthemapersonhiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsth
that challenged them, a person. His way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, the... the 2,000 pr
electionsthethe2000proughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouth
elections, the the 2000 prough, a college prep program. I was able to take part in the National Youth,, the National
thenationalyouththenationaconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyo
 the national youth, the nation, a convention. In Philadelphia, my particular groups, focus was on you,, the nation,
wasonyouthenationuthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethisw
was on you, the nation. Uth. Violence. And having been the victim of bullying for most of my life, this was on you thenw
thiswasonyouthenasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroup
 This was on you, then, as a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group,,, the members
ofourgroupthemembercamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconven
of our group, the member, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the conven,, of our group
theconvenofourgroutionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadta
the conven of our groution. I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had ta,, ta, It hadta
hadtataithadtkenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnon
had TATA. It had TKen several days, for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no no no n
wasnononoaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfrank
was no, no, no. Atural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And Frank,, Frank,
friendbeforeandfrankfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarriert
friend before, and, frank, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. To overcome a barriert
barriertoovercomeabarrierhatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountable
barrier, to overcome a barrier hat, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. I had been ledtzk
insurmountableihadbeenledtzanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbus
insurmountable. I had been led T.Z. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at bus,,, another maj
jobatbusanothermachgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoff
job at bus, another Mach Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of fajob at bus, ano
offajobatbusanaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelop
off a job at bus, an aiths and cultures. And that experience proved to be fundamental to the develop,,, an aiths and
thedevelopanaithsanmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywas
 the develop an aiths. Anment of my character. Most of my life, Id been taught that homosexuality was,,, the develop
thathomosexualitywasthedeveloasinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfl
 that homosexuality was the develoas, in and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative infl. Oas in, and by ext
oasinandbyexuenceaschancewouldhaveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperf
oasin, and, by exuence, as chance would have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay perf. I had the opp
perfihadtheopormersatashowthereandsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmental
per F. I had the opormers at a show there, and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental,, judgmental
thekindestleastjudgmentaljudgmentapeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasen
 the kindest, least judgmental judgment, a people I had ever met. Being bullied as a kid, created a sen,, created as
createdasencreatedaseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditcomesveryunnatu
created a sen, created a seof empathy in me, toward the suffering of others. And it comes very unnature,, and it comes
veryunnatureanditcomerallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiwouldw
very unnature. And it come, rally, to me, to treat people who are kind in any other way than how I would w. I would w
wouldwiwouldanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereotypesid
would W. I would ant to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereotypes. I d... I d... Abl
ididabbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitslike
I did. AB, been taught as a child with real life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like. I dont know wh
likeidontknowwtobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmy
 like, I dont know w to be gay, but Im well acquainted with being judged for something thats beyond my. Beyond my,,
thatsbeyondmybeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartfor
thats beyond my, beyond my control. Then there was the Daily Show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart, for... Jon Stewartz
jonstewartforjonstewartcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotrya
Jon Stewart. For Jon Stewart, CED me to be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, a,, a jout my o
aajoutmyndhelpedmetorealizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothing
a, a jout. My nd helped me to realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing... A persons r
hadnothingapersonstodowiththequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguret
had nothing a persons to do with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. The was, in manyw
figurethewasinmanyomewheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanun
figure. The was, in many ome, when I was in desperate need of one. Inspiration can often come from an un. Un. En. Un
anununenuexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinflue
an ununenuexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influe,, and the fact that
influeandthefactthancemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihad
influe. And the fact, thance, my worldview, than my own extremist father, is not lost on me. One day, I had... I had
dayihadihaaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshes
day. I had, I haa, a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she starting to ch
andshestartingtocaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelo
 and she starting to caid something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She loves. He love
livesheloveshelovokedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmati
live. She love. She lovo. Ked at me with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogma. The... I juerien
enoughdogmatheijueriesmtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinstanti
enough dogma, the ijueriesm, to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instant, I juerie SM to
instantijueriesmtrealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredinsideofyou
instant, I jueries. M.T. realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred inside of you.... You... Re
insideofyouyourzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedtoendourcon
inside of you. Your Zake, Brahim, is not my real name. I changed it when my family decided to end our con. Our con.
endourconourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutmyselfandpotenti
end our con, our connection with my father, and start a new life. So, why would I out myself, and potentiout myself and
myselfandpotentioutmyselfanallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesth
myself and potentiout myself, an ally, put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes the... I do it
hopestheidoiatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
hopes, the I do. I, at perhaps, someone someday who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story, and rear my story
storyandrearmystorealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothis
story and rearmys, to realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this,, this,, thou
subjectedtothisthisthoviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinste
 subjected to this, this thoviolent, intolerant ideology, that I did not become fanaticized. Instep, I did not become
instepididnotbecomadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagainstth
 In step, I did not becomad. I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism, against the... In step, I
againsttheinstepebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedonesfortheterr
against the instepe, bigotry. I do it for the victims of terrorism, and their loved ones, for the terror. For the terr
theterrorfortheteriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesforthevicti
the terror, for the terible pain, and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the victi,... for the victi
thevictiforthevictmsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandcondemnm
 the victi. For the victms of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and condemn, m... I will speak
condemnmiwillspeayfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereasproofthatviolen
condemn. Mi will speay fathers actions. And with that simple fact, I stand here, as proof that violen,, I will speay
thatvioleniwillspeaceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothavetofollo
that, violen, I will speace, isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have to follo. Follo....
nothavetofollofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodytha
not have to follo, follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Everyb
youeverybodythankyoueverynkyouallthanksalotâ—€
you, everybody. Thank you, every NK, you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... You all. Thanks a lot.... You all. Thanks a lot.... Thanks a lot.... Thanks a lot...
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassintedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosairw
in Manhattan, and assassinted, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos. Air W.E. R.A. Hane, th
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
nationalyouthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolencean
National Youth Convention in Philadelphia. My particular groups,, focus was on youth violence. And,, my particular g
wasonyouthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubject
was on youth violence. And having been the victim of bullying, for most of my life, this was a subject,, I was a subj
thiswasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefromman
 This was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from,, Man,, an... from
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
becomefanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagain
become fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, again,, I choose to use
backagainstterrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedo
back against terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it. For the victims of terrorism, and their loved, o,, I do it for
andtheirlovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesfo
 and their loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the terrible pa
upontheirlivesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandc
up on their lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and... I will speak o
thesesenselessactsandcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereaspro
these senseless acts and condemn my fathers actions. And, with that simple fact, I stand here, as pro,, these senseles
standhereasproofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothave
st, and here, as proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have,, and the son d
sondoesnothavetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodyt
son does not have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Ev
youthankyoueverybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... 
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
â–¶onnovember5th1990amannamedelsayyidnosairwalkedintoahotelinmanhattanandassassina
On November 5th, 1990, a man named El Say Yid Nosair, walked into a hotel in Manhattan and assassin. A
inmanhattanandassassinatedrabbimeirkahanetheleaderofthejewishdefenseleaguenosair
in Manhattan, and assassinated, Rabbi Meir Kahane, the leader of the Jewish Defense League, Nos Air,... The leader of
defenseleaguenosairwasinitiallyfoundnotguiltyofthemurderbutwhileservingtimeonles
Defense League. Nos. Air was initially found, not guilty of the murder, but while serving time on less,, but while se
whileservingtimeonlesserchargesheandothermenbeganplanningattacksonadozennewyorkc
 While serving time on lesser charge, she and other men, began planning attacks on a dozen New York C. Arges, he and o
dozennewyorkcitylandmarksincludingtunnelssynagoguesandtheunitednationsheadquarte
dozen New York City landmarks, including tunnels, synagogues,... and the United Nations Headquarte,... the United Na
theunitednationsheadquartersthankfullythoseplanswerefoiledbyanfbiinformantsadlyt
 the United Nations headquarters. Thankfully, those plans were foiled by an FBI informant. Sadly,... those plans were
anfbiinformantsadlythe1993bombingoftheworldtradecenterwasnotnosairwouldeventuall
an FBI informant. Sadly, the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Center was not, no sair, would eventually, eventually, l
notnosairwouldeventuallybeconvictedforhisinvolvementintheplotelsayyidnosairismyf
not. No sair would eventually be convicted for his involvement in the plotel. Say, Yid. No sair. Is my f. F. Is my f
sairismyfatheriwasborninpittsburghpennsylvaniain1983tohimanegyptianengineerandal
s Air is my father. I was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, in 1983. To him, an Egyptian engineer, and a l... a l...
engineerandalovingamericanmotherandgradeschoolteacherwhotogethertriedtheirbestto
engineer, and a loving American mother and grade school teacher, who, together, tried their best... to... tried their
triedtheirbesttocreateahappychildhoodformeitwasntuntiliwassevenyearsoldthatourfa
tried their best to create a happy childhood. For me, it wasnt until I was seven years old, that our faven years old thatO
yearsoldthatourfamilydynamicstartedtochangemyfatherexposedmetoasideofislamthatfe
years old, that our family dynamic started to change. My father exposed me to a side of Islam that, fe,, the rexposed
ofislamthatfewpeopleincludingthemajorityofmuslimsgettoseeitsbeenmyexperiencethat
of Islam, that few people, including the majority of Muslims, get to see. Its been my experience that,,, that few pe
beenmyexperiencethatwhenpeopletakethetimetointeractwithoneanotheritdoesnttakelon
been, my experience, that when people take the time to interact with one another, it doesnt take L.O.N., gerience that
itdoesnttakelongtorealizethatforthemostpartweallwantthesamethingsoutoflifehoweve
 It doesnt take long to realize that, for the most part, we all want the same things out of life. Howeve, howeve, howeve
outoflifehoweverineveryreligionineverypopulationyoullfindasmallpercentageofpeopl
out of life. However, in every religion, in every population, youll find a small percentage of peopl. Find a small perc
smallpercentageofpeoplewhoholdsoferventlytotheirbeliefsthattheyfeeltheymustusean
small percentage of people who hold, so fervently, to their beliefs that they feel. They must use. An... an... an.
theymustuseanymeansnecessarytomakeothersliveastheydoafewmonthspriortohisarresthe
they must use any means necessary to make others live, as they do. A few months prior to his arrest, he... He jest he
tohisarresthesatmedownandexplainedthatforthepastfewweekendsheandsomefriendshadbe
to his arrest. He sat me down and explained that, for the past few weekends, he and some friends had be,, be,, to hi
somefriendshadbeengoingtoashootingrangeonlongislandfortargetpracticehetoldmeidbe
 Some friends had been going to a shooting range on Long Island for target practice. He told me, Id be,, Id be,, Id
toldmeidbegoingwithhimthenextmorningwearrivedatcalvertonshootingrangewhichunbekn
told me, Id be going with him. The next morning, we arrived at Calverton, shooting range, which, unbeknekn,,,, we
calvertonshootingrangewhichunbeknownsttoourgroupwasbeingwatchedbythefbiwhenitwas
Calverton shooting range, which, unbeknownst to our group, was being watched by the FBI. When it was,, when it was
fbiwhenitwasmyturntoshootmyfatherhelpedmeholdtherifletomyshoulderandexplainedhow
FBI. When it was my turn to shoot, my father helped me hold the rifle to my shoulder, and explained how,,, when it w
shoulderandexplainedhowtoaimatthetargetabout30yardsoffthatdaythelastbulletishoth
shoulder, and explained how to aim at the target. About 30 yards off that day, the last bulleti shot. Hot. Hot. Hot. H
thelastbulletishothitthesmallorangelightthatsatontopofthetargetandtoeveryonessur
 The last bullet is hot, hit the small orange light that sat on top of the target. And to everyones sur,, to everyoneszur
andtoeveryonessurpriseespeciallyminetheentiretargetburstintoflamesmyuncleturnedt
 And to everyones surprise, especially mine, the entire target, burst into flames. My uncle turned to everyones surprise
flamesmyuncleturnedtotheothermenandinarabicsaidibnabuhlikefatherlikesontheyallse
flames. My uncle turned to the other men, and in Arabic said, Ibn Abuh, like father, like son. They all se... On. They
sontheyallseemedtogetareallybiglaughoutofthatcommentbutitwasntuntilafewyearslate
son. They all seemed to get a really big laugh out of that comment. But it wasnt until, a few years late,, but it wasnt
afewyearslaterthatifullyunderstoodwhattheythoughtwassofunnytheythoughttheysawinm
 a few years later, that I fully understood what they thought was so funny. They thought, they saw, in my thought, the
thoughttheysawinmethesamedestructionmyfatherwascapableofthosemenwouldeventuallyb
thought, they saw in me the same destruction. My father was capable of those men, would eventually b,, b, tually b,
menwouldeventuallybeconvictedofplacingavanfilledwith1500poundsofexplosivesintoth
 men, would eventually be convicted of placing a van, filled with 1,500 pounds of explosives, into the... the... th
poundsofexplosivesintothesublevelparkinglotoftheworldtradecentersnorthtowercausi
pounds of explosives, into the sub level, parking, lot of the world trade centers. North Tower, causi,, causi,, causi
centersnorthtowercausinganexplosionthatkilledsixpeopleandinjuredover1000othersth
centers, North Tower, causing an explosion that killed six people, and injured over 1,000 others. The Reth Tower, caus
injuredover1000othersthesewerethemenilookeduptothesewerethemenicalledammuwhichme
 injured over 1,000 others. These were the men I looked up to. These were the men I called Ammu, which me,, I called
calledammuwhichmeansunclebythetimeiturned19ihadalreadymoved20timesinmylifeandtha
called Ammu, which means, Uncle. By the time I turned 19, I had already moved 20 times in my life. And thak,, I had a
inmylifeandthatinstabilityduringmychildhooddidntreallyprovideanopportunitytomake
 in my life. And that instability, during my childhood, didnt really provide an opportunity to make.......... didnt
anopportunitytomakemanyfriendseachtimeiwouldbegintofeelcomfortablearoundsomeonei
 an opportunity to make many friends. Each time, I would begin to feel comfortable around someone. I would begin to feelizyiz
comfortablearoundsomeoneitwastimetopackupandmovetothenexttownbeingtheperpetualne
 comfortable around someone. It was time to pack up and move to the next town. Being the perpetual, ne,, it was time to
beingtheperpetualnewfaceinclassiwasfrequentlythetargetofbulliesikeptmyidentityas
being the perpetual, new face. In class, I was frequently the target of bullies. I kept my identity as,,, I kept my
keptmyidentityasecretfrommyclassmatestoavoidbeingtargetedbutasitturnsoutbeingthe
kept my identity a secret, from my classmates, to avoid being targeted. But, as it turns out, being the... being the
turnsoutbeingthequietchubbynewkidinclasswasmorethanenoughammunitionsoforthemostp
 Turns out, being the quiet, chubby, new kid in class was more than enough ammunition. So for the most post post postp
soforthemostpartispentmytimeathomereadingbooksandwatchingtvorplayingvideogamesfo
 So for the most part, I spent my time at home, reading books and watching TV or playing video games. For the most part
orplayingvideogamesforthosereasonsmysocialskillswerelackingtosaytheleastandgrowi
 or playing video games. For those reasons, my social skills, were lacking, to say, the least, and grow i. Wire lackin
leastandgrowingupinabigotedhouseholdiwasntpreparedfortherealworldidbeenraisedtoj
least. And growing up in a bigoted household, I wasnt prepared for the real world. Id been raised to ju. Raised to J.
idbeenraisedtojudgepeoplebasedonarbitrarymeasurementslikeapersonsraceorreligions
 Id been raised to judge people based on arbitrary measurements, like a persons race, or religion. S., Id been raised
raceorreligionsowhatopenedmyeyesoneofmyfirstexperiencesthatchallengedthiswayofth
 race, or religion. So, what opened my eyes. One of my first experiences that challenged this way of this way of thi
challengedthiswayofthinkingwasduringthe2000presidentialelectionsthroughacollegep
 challenged. This way of thinking was, during the 2,000 presidential elections, through a college, presidential electi
electionsthroughacollegeprepprogramiwasabletotakepartinthenationalyouthconventio
elections. Through a college prep program, I was able to take part in the National Youth Convent, I... I was able to
nationalyouthconventioninphiladelphiamyparticulargroupsfocuswasonyouthviolencean
National Youth Convention in Philadelphia. My particular groups,, focus was on youth violence. And,, my particular g
wasonyouthviolenceandhavingbeenthevictimofbullyingformostofmylifethiswasasubject
was on youth violence. And having been the victim of bullying, for most of my life, this was a subject,, I was a subj
thiswasasubjectinwhichifeltparticularlypassionatethemembersofourgroupcamefromman
 This was a subject in which I felt particularly passionate. The members of our group came from,, Man,, an... from
groupcamefrommanydifferentwalksoflifeonedaytowardtheendoftheconventionifoundoutt
group, came from many different walks of life. One day, toward the end of the convention, I found out the end of the c
conventionifoundoutthatoneofthekidsihadbefriendedwasjewishnowithadtakenseveralda
convention, I found out that one of the kids I had befriended was Jewish. Now, it had taken several day,,, it had ta
ithadtakenseveraldaysforthisdetailtocometolightandirealizedthattherewasnonatural
 It had taken several days for this detail to come to light. And I realized that there was no natural,,,, it had ta
therewasnonaturalanimositybetweenthetwoofusihadneverhadajewishfriendbeforeandfra
 there was no natural animosity between the two of us. I had never had a Jewish friend before. And, fra,, and, fra,
friendbeforeandfranklyifeltasenseofprideinhavingbeenabletoovercomeabarrierthatfo
friend before, and, frankly, I felt a sense of pride in having been able to overcome a barrier. That, for forkly, I fe
overcomeabarrierthatformostofmylifeihadbeenledtobelievewasinsurmountableanotherm
overcome a barrier that, for most of my life, I had been, led to believe, was insurmountable. Another mountable. Anotherm
believewasinsurmountableanothermajorturningpointcamewhenifoundasummerjobatbuschg
 believe, was insurmountable. Another major turning point came when I found a summer job at Busch, G.,, gelieve, was
jobatbuschgardensanamusementparkthereiwasexposedtopeoplefromallsortsoffaithsandc
job at Busch Gardens, an amusement park. There, I was exposed to people from all sorts of faiths, and c. I was exposed
offaithsandculturesandthatexperienceprovedtobefundamentaltothedevelopmentofmycha
 of faiths and cultures. And that experience, proved to be fundamental to the development of... my charience, proved
thedevelopmentofmycharactermostofmylifeidbeentaughtthathomosexualitywasasinandby
 the development of my character, most of my life. Id been taught that homosexuality was a sin. And by... by... By
asinandbyextensionthatallgaypeoplewereanegativeinfluenceaschancewouldhaveitihadt
as in, and, by extension, that all gay people were a negative influence. As chance would have it, I had thad thad thad
haveitihadtheopportunitytoworkwithsomeofthegayperformersatashowthereandsoonfound
have it. I had the opportunity to work with some of the gay performers at a show, there, and so on, found... Found
andsoonfoundthatmanywerethekindestleastjudgmentalpeopleihadevermetbeingbulliedas
 and so on, found that many were the kindest, least judgmental people I had ever met. Being bullied, as... being bullie
metbeingbulliedasakidcreatedasenseofempathyinmetowardthesufferingofothersanditco
met. Being bullied, as a kid, created a sense of empathy in me toward the suffering of others. And it co,... It co
othersanditcomesveryunnaturallytometotreatpeoplewhoarekindinanyotherwaythanhowiw
others. And it comes, very unnaturally, to me, to treat people who are kind, in any other way than how I ware kind in
waythanhowiwouldwanttobetreatedbecauseofthatfeelingiwasabletocontrastthestereoty
way than how I would want to be treated. Because of that feeling, I was able to contrast the stereoty,, I was able to
tocontrastthestereotypesidbeentaughtasachildwithreallifeexperienceandinteraction
 To contrast, the stereotypes Id been taught, as a child, with real life, experience and interaction,,... to contraction
lifeexperienceandinteractionidontknowwhatitsliketobegaybutimwellacquaintedwithbe
life, experience and interaction. I dont know what its like to be gay, but Im well acquainted with, be,, be, Im well
wellacquaintedwithbeingjudgedforsomethingthatsbeyondmycontrolthentherewasthedail
well acquainted, with... being judged for something thats beyond my control. Then, there was the dail,,, there was
therewasthedailyshowonanightlybasisjonstewartforcedmetobeintellectuallyhonestwit
 there was the daily show. On a nightly basis, Jon Stewart forced me to be, intellectually, honest, wit. Jon Stewart
beintellectuallyhonestwithmyselfaboutmyownbigotryandhelpedmetorealizethataperson
be, intellectually, honest with myself, about my own bigotry, and helped me to realize that a person,, a person,,
realizethatapersonsracereligionorsexualorientationhadnothingtodowiththequalityof
realize that a persons race, religion, or sexual orientation, had nothing to do with the quality of... the quality of
withthequalityofonescharacterhewasinmanywaysafatherfiguretomewheniwasindesperate
with the quality of ones character. He was, in many ways, a father figure. To me, when I was indesperate,, he was ind
wheniwasindesperateneedofoneinspirationcanoftencomefromanunexpectedplaceandthefa
 When I was in desperate need of one, inspiration can often come from an unexpected place. And the face, and the fac
unexpectedplaceandthefactthatajewishcomedianhaddonemoretopositivelyinfluencemywo
unexpected place. And the fact that a Jewish comedian had done more, to positively influence... my wore, to positively
topositivelyinfluencemyworldviewthanmyownextremistfatherisnotlostonmeonedayihada
to positively influence my worldview than my own. Extremist father is not lost on me. One day, I had a... A... Me. O
dayihadaconversationwithmymotherabouthowmyworldviewwasstartingtochangeandshesaid
day, I had a conversation with my mother about how my worldview was starting to change. And she said,,, and she said
changeandshesaidsomethingtomethatiwillholddeartomyheartforaslongasiliveshelooked
change. And she said something to me that I will hold dear to my heart for as long as I live. She looked,, he looked
iliveshelookedatmewiththewearyeyesofsomeonewhohadexperiencedenoughdogmatismtolas
I live. She looked at me, with the weary eyes of someone who had experienced enough dogmatism to las.............
experiencedenoughdogmatismtolastalifetimeandsaidimtiredofhatingpeopleinthatinsta
experienced enough dogmatism to last a lifetime, and said, Im tired of hating people. In that instag, Im tired of hating
hatingpeopleinthatinstantirealizedhowmuchnegativeenergyittakestoholdthathatredin
hating people. In that instant, I realized how much negative energy it takes to hold that hatred. In... I realized ho
holdthathatredinsideofyouzakebrahimisnotmyrealnameichangeditwhenmyfamilydecidedt
hold that hatred inside of you. Zake Brahim is not my real name. I changed it, when my family decided then my family d
whenmyfamilydecidedtoendourconnectionwithmyfatherandstartanewlifesowhywouldioutm
when my family decided to end our connection with my father and start a new life. So, why would I out. M. I out. M.
wouldioutmyselfandpotentiallyputmyselfindangerwellthatssimpleidoitinthehopesthat
 Would I out myself and potentially put myself in danger. Well, thats simple. I do it in the hopes that,, I do it in
inthehopesthatperhapssomeonesomedaywhoiscompelledtouseviolencemayhearmystoryandr
in the hopes that, perhaps, someone, someday, who is compelled to use violence, may hear my story. And rear my story andr
hearmystoryandrealizethatthereisabetterwaythatalthoughihadbeensubjectedtothisvio
hear my story, and realize that there is a better way, that, although I had been subjected to this vio,, vio,, thou
subjectedtothisviolentintolerantideologythatididnotbecomefanaticizedinsteadichoo
subjected to this violent, intolerant ideology that I did not become fanaticized. Instead, I... I choo... I choo...
becomefanaticizedinsteadichoosetousemyexperiencetofightbackagainstterrorismagain
become fanaticized. Instead, I choose to use my experience to fight back against terrorism,, again,, I choose to use
backagainstterrorismagainstthebigotryidoitforthevictimsofterrorismandtheirlovedo
back against terrorism, against the bigotry. I do it. For the victims of terrorism, and their loved, o,, I do it for
andtheirlovedonesfortheterriblepainandlossthatterrorismhasforcedupontheirlivesfo
 and their loved ones, for the terrible pain and loss that terrorism has forced up on their lives. For the terrible pa
upontheirlivesforthevictimsofterrorismiwillspeakoutagainstthesesenselessactsandc
up on their lives. For the victims of terrorism, I will speak out against these senseless acts, and... I will speak o
thesesenselessactsandcondemnmyfathersactionsandwiththatsimplefactistandhereaspro
these senseless acts and condemn my fathers actions. And, with that simple fact, I stand here, as pro,, these senseles
standhereasproofthatviolenceisntinherentinonesreligionorraceandthesondoesnothave
st, and here, as proof that violence isnt inherent in ones religion or race. And the son does not have,, and the son d
sondoesnothavetofollowthewaysofhisfatheriamnotmyfatherthankyouthankyoueverybodyt
son does not have to follow the ways of his father. I am not my father. Thank you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you. Ev
youthankyoueverybodythankyouallthanksalotâ—€
you. Thank you, everybody. Thank you all. Thanks a lot.
youallthanksalot
you all. Thanks a lot.... 
